274 VOLUME 13WEATHER AND FORECASTING
Furthermore, the rapid evolution of storm cells pre-
sents some challenges in separating out individual cell
elements from multicell and supercell severe storms.
These kinds of storms exhibit series of developing, ma-
ture, and decaying cells, sometimes in close proximity
to each other, and with some degree of vertical tilt. Their
isolation by a cell-based algorithm remains a challenge.
Finally, users should be cognizant that any cell cen-
troid identi®cation and tracking algorithm does exactly
what it is designed to do, namely, detect and track the
cell centroid or center. The center of a storm does not
always denote the areas of threatening weather with that
cell. It is more appropriate for users to be aware that
the onset of a storm (its leading edge) is a better dis-
criminator of the beginning of any severe weather warn-
ing. We recommend that a future SCIT algorithm con-
tain cell detection and tracking, area tracking (for squall
lines), and a leading-edge detector to facilitate the warn-
ing process.
Acknowledgments. Thanks to Mike Francis, Steve
McIntosh, and Robert Harron for their contributions to-
ward the performance evaluation, and to Rodger Brown
for his guidance through the completion of this project.
Additional thanks to Irv Watson for reviewing this
manuscript and many insights into the development of
the algorithm. Funding for this work was partially pro-
vided by the National Weather Service Operational Sup-
port Facility and the Federal Aviation Administration.
APPENDIX A
SCIT Algorithm Adaptable Parameter Settings
Below are the parameter settings for the SCIT al-
gorithm as implemented by the Operational Support Fa-
cility in the WSR-88D Build 9.0 software. Note that
this does not constitute all the adaptable parameters in
the algorithm.
1) AZIMUTHAL SEPARATION
De®nition: Maximum azimuthal separation al-
lowed for grouping segments into 2D components.
Algorithmic response to change: In general, there
is little effect in increasing the maximum azimuthal
separation except where storms are ``affected'' by
blockage. The value of the parameter should never
go below the azimuthal separation of the radar data
or no storms will be identi®ed.
Values: Default 1.5 8, range (1.5 8±3.58)
2) COMPONENT AREA 1±7
De®nition:Area threshold for features to be con-
sidered as storm components for each of the seven
re¯ectivity thresholds (60±30 dB Z).
Algorithmic response to change: Lowering this
parameter will cause the detection of smaller storms
and raising this parameter will decrease the number
of detections.
Values: Default 10.0 km
2, range (10.0±30.0
km2)
3) DEPTH DELETE
De®nition:Threshold depth used, when two cells
are in close proximity, to determine that the weaker
cell should be deleted in order to avoid cell crowd-
ing.
Algorithmic response to change: A larger (small-
er) value will result in fewer (more) small, weak
storms being detected in close proximity to other
stronger storms.
Values: Default 4.0 km, range (0.0±10.0 km)
4) DIRECTION
De®nition: Default direction assigned to storm
cell when DIRECTION is not available.
Algorithmic response to change: Changing this
value will assign a new default storm direction.
Values: Default 225 8, range (0 8±3608)
5) DROPOUT COUNT
De®nition: Maximum number of contiguous
sample volumes with a re¯ectivity below the
threshold REFLECTIVITY by less than or equal to
DROPOUT REF DIFF that may be included in a
segment identi®ed with that REFLECTIVITY .
Algorithmic response to change: Setting this
threshold lower will cause more strict adherence to
the threshold REFLECTIVITY when building seg-
ments (i.e., small changes in re¯ectivity just below
the threshold REFLECTIVITY will not be allowed
in the segment). Setting this threshold higher will
cause less strict adherence to the threshold RE-
FLECTIVITY when building segments (i.e., larger
changes in re¯ectivity below the threshold RE-
FLECTIVITY will be allowed in the segment).
Values: Default 2, range (0±5)
6) DROPOUT REF DIFF
De®nition:The difference in effective re¯ectivity
of sample volumes below REFELECTIVITY that
may still be included in a segment identi®ed with
REFLECTIVITY .
Algorithmic response to change: Setting this
threshold higher will allow more departure from
REFLECTIVIIY when building a segment. Setting
this threshold lower will allow less departure from
REFLECTIVITY when building a segment.
Values: Default 5 dB Z, range (0±10 dB Z)
7) ELEVATION MERGE
De®nition: Threshold elevation angle difference
(vertical gap) for merging cells that are in close
proximity.
Algorithmic response to change: Setting this
threshold lower will permit more cells, in close
proximity, to maintain their identity. Setting the
threshold higher will cause fewer detections of
closely spaced cells. The more cells that are allowed
to be declared within close proximity (i.e., the lower
the threshold), the more dif®cult time association
becomes for the tracking process.
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
