JUNE 1998 265JOHNSON ET AL.
FIG. 2. The shaded areas represent the saved portions of the fol-
lowing storm segments (braces indicate dropouts or termination val-
ues): (a) 50-dB Z storm segment followed by two dropouts, (b) 45-
dBZ storm segment with one dropout, and (c) 30-dB Z storm segment
followed by a re¯ectivity value less than the dropout value (termi-
nation value).
FIG. 3. Outlined blocks represent 30-dB Z thresholded storm seg-
ments. All the 30-dB Z storm segments are combined into a 2D com-
ponent, assuming that they meet the azimuthal and range criteria.
FIG. 4. Two 2D components (40 and 50 dB Z) within a cell feature.
A 45-dBZ 2D component is also embedded within the shaded area.
storm segments algorithm for this process is that SCIT
repeats the process using seven different re¯ectivity
thresholds (REFLECTIVITY: 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35,
and 30 dB Z), whereas the WSR-88D storm segments
algorithm uses only one threshold (30 dB Z).
After the last radial of an elevation scan has been
analyzed, individual storm segments are combined into
2D storm components based on spatial proximity. To
qualify for combination, storm segments must be close
to one another azimuthally (within AZIMUTHAL SEP-
ARATION; default 5 1.58) and overlap in range by a
threshold value (SEGMENT OVERLAP; default 5 2
km). Figure 3 shows a 30-dB Z 2D storm component
containing seven storm segments. Storm components
must have at least two storm segments (NUMBER OF
SEGMENTS; default 5 2) and an area larger than
COMPONENT AREA (default 5 10 km
2). Feature core
extraction is employed to isolate the cells from sur-
rounding areas of lower re¯ectivity. If the centroid of
a higher-re¯ectivity thresholded component falls within
the area of a lower-re¯ectivity thresholded component,
the latter component is discarded (see Fig. 4).
Following the processing of all elevation scans within
the current volume scan, the components are sorted by
decreasing mass, and vertical association is attempted.
The component mass is an estimate (based on its re-
¯ectivity) of the component's equivalent liquid water
content. Each identi®ed 3D storm cell consists of two
or more 2D storm components on consecutive elevation
angles. The process of vertical association is an iterative
one, beginning at the lowest elevation angle. First, an
attempt is made to associate components (on consecu-
tive elevation scans) whose centroids are horizontally
within 5 km of one another. If more than one association
is possible, association is made with the 2D component
having the largest mass. When nonassociated compo-
nents remain after the ®rst attempt, the search radius is
increased to 7.5 km, and the process is repeated for all
the nonassociated components. If, after this second at-
tempt, nonassociated components still remain, a ®nal
attempt is made using a 10-km search radius. All re-
maining nonassociated components are saved but are
not currently used in the algorithm as implemented in
the WSR-88D system. The process is performed for all
adjacent elevation scans. An example of an ideal 3D
storm cell identi®cation is shown in Fig. 5. The ®nal
result is a group of 3D and 2D storm cell snapshots.
Since only the most intense (highest-re¯ectivity thres-
holded) components are used to de®ne 3D storm cells,
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
