266 VOLUME 13WEATHER AND FORECASTING
FIG. 5. The highlighted segments and their corresponding circles
represent 2D components.
FIG. 6. Similar to Fig. 5 except with a vertical gap in the detected
2D components.
the ®nal product is actually a 3D storm cell centroid.
These storm cells are then ranked by their cell-based
vertically integrated liquid (VIL) value (see appendix
B).
The SCIT implementation in the WSR-88D system
does not utilize the 2D centroid information from the
nonassociated components. After all possible 3D as-
sociations are completed, the remaining nonassociated
lowest-elevation 2D centroids located beyond a site-
adaptable range threshold could be classi®ed as 2D
storm cells. This new classi®cation would identify storm
cells as undersampled by the radar due to their range
from the radar. A similar procedure is implemented in
the National Severe Storms Laboratory (NSSL) Me-
socyclone Detection Algorithm (Stumpf et al. 1998).
Occasionally, when several cells are clustered closely
together, the algorithm may have dif®culty identifying
distinct 2D components for each cell at all of the ele-
vation angles. When this happens, a single storm cell
may actually be detected as two (or more) 3D cells,
each at roughly the same horizontal location but sepa-
rated by a vertical gap. As shown in Fig. 6, under certain
circumstances, the collocated 3D cells may be combined
to form a single cell. This is done when the following
three conditions are met: 1) the two cells do not have
2D storm components at the same elevation angle (i.e.,
there is a vertical gap), 2) the horizontal distance be-
tween the two centroids is less than a preset threshold
(HORIZONTAL MERGE; default 5 10.0 km) and 3)
if the vertical separation between the top of one cell
and the base of the other is less than both of the fol-
lowing parameters: HEIGHT MERGE; default 5 4.0
km, and ELEVATION MERGE; default 5 3.08.
Since the new algorithm detects many more storm
cells than the WSR-88D storm series algorithms, there
can be situations where numerous cells are identi®ed in
close proximity to one another. This may result in un-
desirable crowding of displayed output and poor track-
ing performance. In such situations, it is preferable to
retain only the stronger, taller storm cells. Thus, if the
distance between the centroids of two cells is less than
a preset threshold (HORIZONTAL DELETE; default 5
5.0 km), the weaker or shorter cell is discarded if a
difference in depth greater than DEPTH DELETE (de-
fault 5 4 km) exists between the two cells.
c. Tracking methodology
Storm cells identi®ed in two consecutive volume
scans are associated temporally to determine the cell
track. The initial step is to check the time difference
between volume scans. If this time difference is greater
than TIME (default 5 20 min), time association is not
attempted. This is done to handle data discontinuities
due to malfunctions in the radar or interrupted com-
munications.
Using the centroid locations from the previous vol-
ume scan, a ®rst guess at location for the current volume
scan is generated. The ®rst guess uses either the cell's
previous motion vector or a default motion vector (if
the cell was ®rst detected in the previous volume scan).
The default motion vector is either an average of all the
motion vectors from storm cells in the previous volume
scan or from user input (SPEED, DIRECTION). The
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
