272 VOLUME 13WEATHER AND FORECASTING
FIG. 11. (a) Composite re¯ectivity image (volume scan 167) where a new cell appears to be forming within cell 17's forecasted path.
(b) Next volume scan (168) SCIT detects the new cell but incorrectly time associates it with dissipating cell 17.
rithm, as opposed to one in the storm series algorithm,
greatly improves the identi®cation of storm cells.
The SCIT algorithm uses thresholds of re¯ectivity,
length of segments, and area of components (as well as
other thresholds), and it requires at least two consecutive
elevation angles of information for ranges less than or
equal to a threshold, to detect a storm. Thus, the al-
gorithm does not detect cells that are small (either in
length along a radial or in areal coverage), shallow (not
passing thresholds on two consecutive elevation scans),
or have a maximum re¯ectivity less than 30 dB Z (e.g.,
developing storms, towering Cu). However, when storm
cells form within extremely close proximity to each oth-
er, the above thresholds may merge cells together and
identify them as one cell. This scenario tends to occur
in squall lines with large areas of similar re¯ectivity.
Since the SCIT algorithm detects more storm cells
than the storm series algorithm, the tracking process
becomes much more complicated. The simple tracking
technique used in the SCIT algorithm performs best
when storms have fairly consistent velocities and new
storms do not develop close to dissipating storms.
Therefore, isolated storms and well-organized storms
within squall lines, clusters, etc., that have consistent
velocities are tracked with the greatest accuracy. Finally,
the forecast performance analysis shows that short-term
storm position forecasts tend to be more accurate than
longer-term forecasts.
6. Operational implications of the SCIT algorithm
Now that the SCIT algorithm has replaced the WSR-
88D storm series algorithm as the ®elded storm iden-
ti®cation and tracking algorithm for the WSR-88D, sev-
eral changes in strategy for storm detection and algo-
rithm guidance usage are warranted. Although the SCIT
algorithm represents a vast improvement over the storm
series algorithm, users should be fully aware of SCIT's
strengths and weaknesses.
As the new SCIT algorithm has greater precision in
identifying individual storm cells versus larger areas of
precipitation, users may still ®nd it important to be able
to track larger areas of precipitation. We would not rec-
ommend the use of the WSR-88D storm series algo-
rithm, with its single 30-dB Z threshold, to track me-
soscale stratiform areas of precipitation. Nor do we ad-
vocate the use of lowered thresholds (by changing RE-
FLECTIVITY in appendix A) to mimic the former
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
