JUNE 1998 267JOHNSON ET AL.
FIG. 7. An example of the time association process. The 3 rep-
resents the current volume scan cells' ®rst-guess position and the
short arrows show the forecast error between the previous volume
scan cells' position and their associated ®rst-guess positions.
T
ABLE 1. Parameters for which the SCIT algorithm produces a
time series. An asterisk denotes those parameters not available to the
end user of the WSR-88D implementation of the SCIT algorithm.
Maximum re¯ectivity
Height of maximum re¯ectivity
Base (height of lowest 2D feature)
Top (height of highest 2D feature)
Mass
Cell-based VIL [vs the traditional grid-based VIL (Greene and Clark
1972)]
Height of center of mass
*Volume
*Core aspect ratio (ratio of the depth of the identi®ed storm cell's
core to its width)
*Ratio of maximum re¯ectivity to re¯ectivity at the lowest elevation
angle
latter is used only if no average motion vector could be
determined from the previous volume scan. Future en-
hancements to the algorithm should include accepting
input from a sounding in the form of the mean 0±6-km
wind vector (Davies and Johns 1993) or some other
mean wind.
Next, the distance between the centroid of each cell
detected in the current volume scan and each of the
®rst-guess locations is calculated. If the distance is less
than a threshold value, the old cell associated with that
®rst-guess position is saved as a possible match with
the current cell. Then, the distance between the new cell
and all possible matches is determined. The match with
the smallest distance is considered to be the time as-
sociation of the detected cell. The last step involves
calculating a new motion vector for each storm cell that
has been identi®ed for at least two volume scans. The
motion vector is computed using a linear least squares
®t of the storm cell's current and up to 10 previous
locations. Equal weight is given to all previous posi-
tions.
An example of the time association process is shown
in Fig. 7. The initial detection of two storm cells is
depicted in Fig. 7a. Figure 7b illustrates the second de-
tection of two storm cells, their ®rst guess positions
(denoted by an `` 3''), and the distance between the old
and current storm cell position (denoted by double ar-
rowed line). Assuming that the computed distance meets
threshold requirements, both cells are time-associated
with their previous detections.
Once the tracking process is completed, attributes of
the storm cells are calculated and stored as a time series
for up to the previous 10 volume scans. See Table 1 for
a list of relevant attributes.
3. Performance evaluation
The SCIT algorithm's performance was evaluated for
1) cell identi®cation, 2) cell tracking, and 3) position
forecasting. A discussion of the evaluation procedure is
presented, followed by the results. The identi®cation
results are strati®ed by storm type and are compared to
the performance of the WSR-88D storm series algo-
rithms. The tracking evaluation demonstrates how well
the detected storms are correctly associated in time and
the forecasting evaluation provides the average error
associated with multiple forecast periods.
a. Identi®cation evaluation
The following procedure was followed to determine
SCIT algorithm identi®cation performance for each case
in the dataset:
1) veri®cation dataset was determined,
2) algorithm was run on each case,
3) the output was scored versus veri®cation, and
4) characteristics of algorithm failures were identi®ed.
To determine the performance of the algorithm for var-
ious different environments, cases were subjectively
strati®ed into the following categories:
1) ``isolated nonsevere'': storms were predominantly
isolated and no severe weather reports were record-
ed,
2) ``isolated severe'': storms were predominantly iso-
lated and more than one severe weather report was
recorded,
3) ``MCS (mesoscale convective system)/Line'': indi-
vidual storms were in a large cluster or line,
4) ``minisupercell'': storms took on the structure of
classic supercell storms, but the horizontal and ver-
tical scale was much less than classic (Burgess et al.
1995), and
5) ``stratiform precipitation'': a large area of light to
moderate re¯ectivity with few if any re¯ectivity val-
ues above 40 dB Z.
These categories were chosen because they represent
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
