JUNE 1998 263JOHNSON ET AL.
The Storm Cell IdentiÂŪcation and Tracking Algorithm: An Enhanced
WSR-88D Algorithm
J. T . JOHNSON,* PAMELA L. M ACKEEN,*1 ARTHUR WITT,* E. D EWAYNE MITCHELL,*1
GREGORY J. S TUMPF,*1 MICHAEL D. E ILTS,* AND KEVIN W. THOMAS*1
* NOAA, Environmental Research Laboratories, National Severe Storms Laboratory, Norman, Oklahoma
1 Cooperative Institute for Mesoscale Meteorological Studies, University of Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma
(Manuscript received 28 February 1997, in ÂŪnal form 9 December 1997)
ABSTRACT
Accurate storm identiÂŪcation and tracking are basic and essential parts of radar and severe weather warning
operations in today's operational meteorological community. Improvements over the original WSR-88D storm
series algorithm have been made with the Storm Cell IdentiÂŪcation and Tracking algorithm (SCIT). This paper
discusses the SCIT algorithm, a centroid tracking algorithm with improved methods of identifying storms (both
isolated and clustered or line storms). In an analysis of 6561 storm cells, the SCIT algorithm correctly identiÂŪed
68% of all cells with maximum reÂŊectivities over 40 dB Z and 96% of all cells with maximum reÂŊectivities of
50 dBZ or greater. The WSR-88D storm series algorithm performed at 24% and 41%, respectively, for the same
dataset. With better identiÂŪcation performance, the potential exists for better and more accurate tracking infor-
mation. The SCIT algorithm tracked greater than 90% of all storm cells correctly.
The algorithm techniques and results of a detailed performance evaluation are presented. This algorithm was
included in the WSR-88D Build 9.0 of the Radar Products Generator software during late 1996 and early 1997.
It is hoped that this paper will give new users of the algorithm sufÂŪcient background information to use the
algorithm with conÂŪdence.
1. Introduction
The network of Doppler radars called Weather Sur-
veillance Radar-1988 Doppler (WSR-88D) have been
purchased, installed, and maintained by the United
States National Weather Service (NWS), the Federal
Aviation Administration (FAA), and the Department of
Defense. This modernized network has replaced the ag-
ing WSR-57 and WSR-74 radars and become the pri-
mary severe weather warning tool used by the govern-
ment and the private sector. Some advantages of this
network are nationwide coverage, Doppler capabilities,
and a suite of severe weather detection algorithms. A
more complete description of the WSR-88D system is
given in Crum and Alberty (1993).
Severe weather detection algorithms are a key ele-
ment of the WSR-88D system for numerous reasons.
Such algorithms can provide severe weather potential
and detection products to a forecaster during severe
weather warning operations. The WSR-88D algorithms
used in NWS ofÂŪces across the country can detect me-
socyclone and tornadic vortex signatures in the Doppler
velocity data and furnish continuous isolated storm and
Corresponding author address: J. T . Johnson, NOAA/ERL/NSSL,
1313 Halley Circle, Norman, OK 73069.
E-mail: johnson@nssl.noaa.gov
storm system identiÂŪcation, tracking, and cell motion
products. Many other useful severe weather-related
products are discussed in Klazura and Imy (1993).
The subject of this paper is the Storm Cell IdentiÂŪ-
cation and Tracking (SCIT) algorithm; many similar al-
gorithms have been developed over the past 40 years.
These algorithms have either used cross correlation to
determine the movement of storms or storm-cell cen-
troid techniques to individually identify and track
storms. Both techniques have strengths and weaknesses:
correlation tracking algorithms tend to provide more
accurate speed and direction information on larger areas
of reÂŊectivity, while centroid identiÂŪcation and tracking
algorithms can track individual isolated storms more
effectively (Jackson 1993) and can provide cell char-
acteristic information. In addition to these two schemes,
a tracking method called combinational optimization,
which combines both techniques, has been more re-
cently developed (Dixon and Wiener 1993).
Cross correlation analysis of the reÂŊectivity ÂŪeld was
one of the ÂŪrst tracking techniques developed. This
method may be used to track the entire reÂŊectivity ÂŪeld
(to determine the general motion of the entire ÂŪeld),
isolated echo regions (to determine the motion of iso-
lated storms or storm systems), or cells within a large
echo region (to determine the motion of cells within a
storm system) (Crane 1979). Examples of operational
cross correlation algorithms include the Integrated Ter-
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
