JUNE 1998 269JOHNSON ET AL.
FIG. 8. Algorithm detected cells are denoted by D, whereas veri®ed
cells are denoted by X. In (a) a hit and a miss are shown. The hit is
the cell with closely coinciding X and D notations. In (b) two false
alarms are shown. The false alarms are the cells solely noted by a
D not directly adjacent to an X.
T
ABLE 3. Probability of detection (POD) for each storm type in
the identi®cation performance evaluation for the SCIT algorithm.
Storm type
POD (cells
30±39 dB Z)
POD (cells
40±49 dB Z)
POD (cells
$ 50 dB Z)
Isolated severe
Isolated nonsevere
MCS/Line
27%
43%
25%
70%
68%
64%
96%
97%
96%
Stratiform
Minisupercell
Total
0%
71%
28%
13%
82%
68%
Ð
96%
96%
that cells with re¯ectivities above 50 dB Z have a 96%
chance of being detected. Also, on average, the results
for isolated cells are better than for other types. A note
concerning the stratiform precipitation event: the al-
gorithm was not designed to perform well on such an
event. The inclusion of the results for this event illustrate
this fact. The 0% probability of detection (POD) for
30±39-dBZ cells is an indication that these cells did not
demonstrate much vertical growth and thus the algo-
rithm's requirement for two consecutive elevation scans
eliminated the possibility of detecting these cells.
No false alarms occurred in these cases; however,
known instances of false alarms involve nonmeteoro-
logical radar returns, such as chaff or ground clutter.
The algorithm requirement of two consecutive elevation
angles eliminates a large majority of these potential false
alarms.
Algorithm misses were each analyzed to determine
their cause. Two types of algorithm failures were iden-
ti®ed: 1) decaying or newly formed cells not being iden-
ti®ed when in the vicinity of larger mature cells, and 2)
cells meeting size and intensity criteria on only one
elevation scan not being identi®ed.
Misses of decaying or newly formed cells were due
to one of the algorithm's cell de®nition rules. When the
centroid of a 2D re¯ectivity component exists within
the horizontal radius of another component (at the same
elevation), the component with the higher re¯ectivity is
saved and the other is discarded. In each case, the cell
affected by this rule was either in its decaying or for-
mative stage. For example, in Fig. 9, a storm cell to the
northeast of storm cell 21 is in its decaying stage; a
component is de®ned on the lowest-elevation scan (left
panel). However, at the next higher-elevation scan (right
panel), only the cell to its south has a de®nable com-
ponent whose threshold is greater than the larger, weaker
components enclosing both cells. As a result, the de-
caying cell is not detected.
Algorithm misses due to lack of vertical continuity
were ``too shallow'' to pass the size and intensity thresh-
olds on two consecutive elevation scans. An example
of this type of miss is shown in Fig. 10. These misses
caused by shallow cells were further analyzed to de-
termine their characteristics. These missed cells were
all small in size (2D areas ,10 km
2) and weak in re-
¯ectivity (maximum re¯ectivity ,45 dB Z). There is
also some indication that storms located more than 150
km from the radar site are more likely to be missed,
which is likely related to a radar's poor vertical reso-
lution at long ranges due to beam spreading. A range-
adaptable, 2D cell detector has been developed to detect
such cells. However, this technique was not imple-
mented in the WSR-88D in Build 9.0.
The WSR-88D storm series algorithms were also run
on each of the cases listed in Table 2. Using the same
veri®cation dataset and the same scoring techniques as
for the SCIT algorithm, the WSR-88D algorithm output
was scored versus the veri®cation data for each case.
The performance results for each type are given in Table
4. Like the SCIT algorithm, the WSR-88D storm series
algorithms tend to better identify isolated storm cells
than closely spaced cells that exist within multicellular
thunderstorms and squall lines. However, these results
also show that using only one re¯ectivity, rather than
seven re¯ectivity thresholds (see Table 3), as a discrim-
inator for cell detections results in much poorer storm
cell detection, regardless of storm type or storm cell
intensity. As with SCIT , there were no false alarms.
b. Tracking performance evaluation
Correct time associations are essential for an end user
to follow cell evolution. A correct time association re-
fers to a case in which a cell was correctly identi®ed
and correctly tracked. In these cases, the calculated cell
evolution characteristics may be used with some con-
®dence. The tracking performance evaluation involves
four steps:
1) tracking the volume scan-to-volume scan life cycle
of all algorithm-identi®ed cells,
2) determining the number of incorrect time associa-
tions,
3) noting their characteristics, and
4) calculating the percentage of cells correctly tracked
by the algorithm.
The ``percentage correct'' is simply the ratio of the cor-
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
