264 VOLUME 13WEATHER AND FORECASTING
FIG. 1. IdentiÂŪcation of 50, 45, 40, 35, and 30 dB Z thresholded
storm segments along a radial.
minal Weather System storm cell information algorithm
(Klingle-Wilson et al. 1993) and the Advanced TrafÂŪc
Management System cross-correlation tracker algorithm
(Jackson and Jesuroga 1995). Both of these algorithms
were initially developed to provide automated storm
tracking for the FAA.
The cross-correlation techniques were followed by
storm cell centroid identiÂŪcation and tracking tech-
niques. Wilk and Gray (1970) applied a centroid iden-
tiÂŪcation technique to the WSR-57 radar signal in order
to estimate storm motion and precipitation. Their 2D
storm centroid technique identiÂŪed areas of contiguous
echo above a set reÂŊectivity level threshold. An inten-
sity-weighted centroid, used to deÂŪne the storm location,
was determined for each identiÂŪed area. This technique
and variations thereof were also applied by Zittel (1976),
Brady et al. (1978), and others. Crane (1979) further
developed this type of scheme to deÂŪne the individual
3D cell cores within clustered or large reÂŊectivity ech-
oes. A few years later, Rosenfeld (1987) developed an
algorithm that tracked the cell reÂŊectivity maxima and
its encompassing echo. Both algorithms determined the
cell volume characteristics associated with identiÂŪed
storm cells. Brady, Crane, and Rosenfeld automated
their cell identiÂŪcation and tracking schemes by imple-
menting cell centroid tracking. Boak et al. (1977) de-
veloped a centroid identiÂŪcation algorithm and Forsyth
(1979) developed a centroid tracking technique. These
latter two algorithms became the basis for the WSR-
88D storm series algorithm (prior to Build 9.0).
This paper discusses SCIT , an algorithm that was de-
veloped to identify, characterize, track, and forecast the
short-term movement of storm cells identiÂŪed in three
dimensions. It is based on centroid identiÂŪcation and
tracking techniques because of the technique's capabil-
ity to track individual storms and to provide cell char-
acteristic information. The SCIT algorithm's develop-
ment was motivated by the relatively poor performance
(NSSL 1995) of the WSR-88D storm series algorithms
in situations of closely spaced storms (lines, clusters).
The use of seven reÂŊectivity thresholds (30, 35, 40, 45,
50, 55, 60 dB Z) in the SCIT algorithm, as opposed to
the one reÂŊectivity threshold (30 dB Z) used in the WSR-
88D storm series algorithms, greatly improves identi-
ÂŪcation performance. For instance, within a line or clus-
ter of storms, individual storm cells are detected by the
SCIT algorithm, whereas only one storm may be de-
tected by the WSR-88D storm series algorithms. Since
SCIT identiÂŪes individual storms, rather than storm sys-
tems, individual storm cells may be tracked, and their
characteristics, such as maximum reÂŊectivity, may be
determined and trended. Thus, the evolution of cell-
based characteristics is available to the forecaster. This
paper describes the details of this algorithm, which has
been implemented as part of the WSR-88D system
(Build 9.0), including its strengths, weaknesses, and op-
erational performance.
2. The SCIT algorithm
a. Data processing requirements
The SCIT algorithm processes volumetric reÂŊectivity
information from WSR-88D base data (Crum and Al-
berty 1993) on a radial-by-radial basis. No velocity data
are processed by the algorithm. No special data ÂŪltering
or thresholding, apart from the radar data acquisition
ground clutter suppression, error detection, etc., is per-
formed before data processing begins.
b. Detection methodology
Three-dimensional storm identiÂŪcation is performed
in stages, beginning with one-dimensional (1D) data
processing. The purpose of the 1D portion of the al-
gorithm is to identify storm ``segments'' in the radial
reÂŊectivity data. Storm segments are deÂŪned as runs,
along a radial, of contiguous range gates (sample vol-
umes) whose reÂŊectivities are above a speciÂŪed thresh-
old (REFLECTIVITY 1Âą7; a list of thresholds used by
the algorithm is given in appendix A). As illustrated in
Fig. 1, when a reÂŊectivity value above REFLECTIVITY
is ÂŪrst encountered along a radial, subsequent gates hav-
ing reÂŊectivity above REFLECTIVITY are grouped to-
gether, until a reÂŊectivity value below REFLECTIVITY
is encountered. If this reÂŊectivity value is not more than
DROPOUT REF DIFF below REFLECTIVITY , DROP-
OUT COUNT is incremented, and the process contin-
ues. However, when a reÂŊectivity value more than
DROPOUT REF DIFF is encountered or when the drop-
out counter (DROPOUT COUNT) reaches a speciÂŪed
value (default 5 2), the process is terminated and a
storm segment is created. In Fig. 2, three gray-scaled
storm segments are shown. Their braced dropout and
termination values further illustrate that only dropouts
within the segment are saved. The dropout method has
been implemented in an attempt to keep related features
together.
A storm segment is saved if its radial length (ending
rangeÂąbeginning range) is greater than a preset threshold
(SEGMENT LENGTH 1Âą7; default 5 1.9 km). The
primary difference between SCIT and the WSR-88D
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
