JUNE 1998 275JOHNSON ET AL.
Values: Default 3.0 8, range (1.0 8±5.08)
8) HEIGHT MERGE
De®nition: Threshold vertical gap distance for
merging cells in close proximity.
Algorithmic response to change: Setting this
threshold lower will permit more cells, in close
proximity, to maintain their identity. Setting the
threshold higher will cause fewer detections of
closely spaced cells. The more cells that are allowed
to be declared within close proximity (i.e. the lower
the threshold), the more dif®cult time association
becomes for the tracking process.
Values: Default 4.0 km, range (1.0±8.0 km)
9) HORIZONTAL DELETE
De®nition: Threshold distance for deleting
storms in close proximity.
Algorithmic response to change: A larger value
will result in fewer detections and can cause poor
tracking performance in highly evolving situations.
Values: Default 5.0 km, range (3.0±30.0 km)
10) HORIZONTAL MERGE
De®niton: Threshold horizontal distance for
merging cells that are in close proximity.
Algorithmic response to change: Setting this
threshold lower will permit more cells, in close
proximity, to maintain their identity. Setting the
threshold higher will cause fewer detections of
closely spaced cells. The more cells that are allowed
to be declared within close proximity (i.e., the lower
the threshold), the more dif®cult time association
becomes for the tracking process.
Values: Default, 10.0 km range (5.0±20.0 km)
11) NUMBER OF SEGMENTS
De®nition: Minimum number of segments re-
quired to save a 2D component.
Algorithmic response to change: Fewer storms
are detected at longer ranges when NUMBER OF
SEGMENTS is set too high. False detections
caused by ground clutter are virtually eliminated
when the parameter is set above two. Setting the
parameter to one will cause 2D storm components
to be built for clutter, but these generally do not
pass the vertical continuity requirement to be de-
clared as a storm.
Values: Default 2, range (1±4)
12) REFLECTIVITY 1±7
De®nition:The seven re¯ectivity thresholds used
for the one-and two-dimensional parts of the storm
cell building process (60±30 dB Z).
Algorithmic response to change: Phenomenon
with chosen re¯ectivity thresholds will be detected
if they meet the requirements of the storm cell
building process.
Values: Default 60, 55, 50, 45, 40, 35, 30 dB Z,
range (0±maximum detectable dB Z value).
13) SEGMENT LENGTH 1±7
De®nition: Minimum required length of a seg-
ment.
Algorithmic response to change: Lowering this
parameter will cause the detection of more smaller
storms and raising this parameter will decrease the
number of detections.
Values: Default 1.9 km, range (1.9±9.9 km)
14) SEGMENT OVERLAP
De®nition: Minimum range overlap required for
grouping segments into 2D components.
Algorithmic response to change: This parameter
should never be lower than the gate spacing of the
re¯ectivity data. The effect of lowering this param-
eter is unknown at this time. Raising this parameter
will cause fewer detections of smaller storms and
becomes meaningless without a corresponding
change in the area thresholds (COMPONENT
AREA).
Values: Default 2, range (0±5 bins)
15) SPEED
De®nition:Speed used to compute the correlation
distance.
Algorithmic response to change: Changing this
value will cause storms moving slower or faster
than SPEED to have less chance of correct time
association.
Values: Default 30 m s
21, range (10±99 m s 21)
16) TIME
De®nition: Maximum time between successive
volume scans for the storm cell histories to be re-
tained for tracking and trending.
Algorithmic response to change: Setting this val-
ue lower will cause storms to not be correctly time
associated when a gap in the data occurs that is
shorter than TIME. Setting this value higher will
cause storm to be time associated (not necessarily
correctly) when a gap in the data occurs that is
shorter than TIME.
Values: Default 20 min, range (10±60 min)
APPENDIX B
Cell-Based Vertically Integrated Liquid
The liquid water content of a cloud can be used to
determine the amount of condensation and dynamic de-
velopment that has taken place. Changes in the liquid
water content are also associated with thermodynamic
energy changes (Greene and Clark 1972). VIL, a mea-
sure of the liquid water in a vertical column within a
storm, was calculated using the re¯ectivity data. VIL is
given by
4/7n (Z 1 Z )ii 1126 22VIL 5 3.44 3 10 Dh (kg m ),O [] 2i51
(B1)
where Zi and Zi11 are re¯ectivity factors at two succes-
sive levels and Dh is the distance (m) between the levels
(Stewart 1991). Thus, VIL increases with both the mag-
nitude and depth of the re¯ectivity. Typically, VIL is
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
