270 VOLUME 13WEATHER AND FORECASTING
FIG. 9. Example of a storm not meeting all criteria on at least two consecutive elevation angles: (a) a component is de®ned on the lowest
elevation scan (de®ned by the four white dots); (b) on the second elevation scan, only the cell to its south has a de®nable component whose
threshold is greater than the larger, weaker components enclosing both cells.
rect time associations divided by the total number of
time associations. Four cases were evaluated: two mini-
supercell cases, one isolated severe case, and one MCS/
Line case. The results are given in Table 5.
Most time association errors occur during the simul-
taneous growth and decay stages of two different closely
spaced cells (see Fig. 11). In the ®rst composite re¯ec-
tivity image a new cell appears to be forming within
cell 17's forecast path. Indeed, in the second image,
SCIT detects the new cell but incorrectly time-associates
it with dissipating cell 17. As a result, the new cell's
observed characteristics are incorrectly time-associated
with the dissipating cell's and vice versa. In this ex-
ample, the new storm formed very near the forecasted
cell position. Sometimes new storm cells are within the
thresholded distance requirement, but their position is
so angularly offset from the forecast position that a time
association between the two cells is clearly incorrect.
This type of error may be eliminated by imposing a
directional thresholding rule to the time association pro-
cess. For instance, a 90 8 threshold would limit cell time
association to within 45 8 of either side of a forecasted
position. Figure 12 shows an example of the imple-
mentation of this technique. However, such a technique
has problems with slow-moving storms that may make
apparently large changes in direction, so at this time,
this technique has not been implemented.
c. Positional forecasting evaluation
An analysis of SCIT forecasting performance was
carried out for 898 cells (with a lifetime of at least two
volume scans) for a variety of storm types. The analysis
involved a comparison of SCIT-identi®ed storm location
(at the time of the forecast) to the forecast location and
computing the distance between the two. The results for
different lead times were averaged to ®nd the mean
forecast error. This was done for forecast lead times out
to 60 min. The results are given in Table 6. As is ex-
pected, forecast error increases with lead time.
4. Products
The WSR-88D Build 9.0 version of the SCIT algo-
rithm creates tabular, alphanumeric, and graphical prod-
ucts. The products provide storm cell attribute infor-
mation on storm structure along with tracking infor-
mation that aid the user during the forecast and warning
process. Storm track attributes are available in each for-
mat whereas storm structure attributes are only given
Unauthenticated | Downloaded 06/10/26 03:59 AM UTC
